Update KEP-3329 "Retriable and non-retriable Pod failures for Jobs" for Beta (#3463)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-apps/3329-retriable-and-non-retriable-failures/README.md

- Handling of Pod configuration errors resulting in pods stuck in the `Pending`
  state (value of `status.phase`) rather than `Failed` (such as incorrect image
  name, non-matching configMap references, incorrect PVC references).

> - Adding of `ResourceExhausted` condition for Windows containers.

Reviewer: FYI @kubernetes/sig-windows-leads

Reviewer 2: I read the KEP updates and just wanted to confirm that only the scenarios called out here (OOM and node shutdown issues) were **not** expected to work for Windows workloads correct?
If that is the case this I don't see any issues with these updates with respect to Windows support.

Author: Correct. Thanks for reviewing the changes.

events (such as preemption). I do not have knowledge or influence over the executable that researchers run,

> so I don't know beforehand which exit codes they might return.

Reviewer 3: "infinite retries" - are infinite retries are really desirable even for cluster-management disruptions? It could be due to broken configurations and it might be costly to keep retrying forever. Should we give up users an option to give up even for cluster-management disruptions?

For comparison the current default backoffLimit is 6, so erring on the side of giving up after some time.

Maybe actions could come with retry limits:
action=Retry(x) - equivalent to backoffLimit=x but counted within this rule
action=FailJob - equivalent to Retry(0)
action=Ignore - equivalent to Retry(inf)
traditional backoffLimit in Job spec - equivalent to default Retry(backoffLimit) rule at the end
?
(not sure what to do if two rules want to share the limit, maybe that's not needed)

Reviewer 3: Right, but backoffLimit is also default after not matching any rule. So either way, we won't be able to do "If cluster-management - retry 6 times, everything else - fail immediately [or retry X<6 times]". Have we considered the "else" action? So I could do something like:

backoffLimit: 6
podFailurePolicy:
  rules:
    - action: Count
      onPodConditions:
      - type: DisruptionTarget
   - action: FailJob (else action, by default Count if not provided)

And then the difference between Retry(X) and Count would be just whether we want to support more than one limit.

Reviewer: You can do that with `FailJob` on `exit code != 0` :)

Reviewer 4: what about other onPodConditions types? and other future requirements?

Reviewer 3: This:

```
backoffLimit: 6
podFailurePolicy:
  rules:
    - action: Count
      onPodConditions:
      - type: DisruptionTarget
   - action: FailJob
      onExitCodes:
        operator: NotIn
        values: [0]
```

does seem to cover my usecase of avoiding infinite retries: "If transient cluster disruptions - retry X times, everything else - fail immediately". (Consider adding a user story/example to KEP.)

Not sure if more is needed in the API then. If it's easy to add catch-all/else action, I'd still do it. This is natural in "case/when" syntaxes and simpler than figuring out FailJob exit code != 0 trick.

Agree that multiple limits would complicate the API and better to wait for feedback before adding it.

Author: I like the Retry(x) idea. I see it as a parametrized Count, where we could indicate which limit we count a Pod failure towards. For example: 

```yaml
podFailurePolicy:
  limits:
    disruptionsLimit: 10
    specialRandomFailureLimit: 4
  rules:
    - action: Count
      countTowardsLimit: disruptionsLimit
      onPodConditions:
      - type: DisruptionTarget
   - action: Count
      countTowardsLimit: specialRandomFailureLimit
      onExitCodes:
        operator: In
        values: [42]
```

However, it complicates the API and I would like to refrain from implementing it until there is an important use case.

For now, I've updated the KEP with Story 3 where I describe the use case "count disruptions but fail jobs immediately on user errors", using the `exit code != 0` trick. 

To avoid the trick I see three solutions (2. was suggested by @qelo internally):
1. keep the API as is, we can provide the configuration in docs so that it will be easy to find out by users
2. allow for the last rule to have an action without `onExitCodes` and `onPodConditions` (it would play a role of `default` in `switch-case` syntax)
3. introduce `fallbackAction` / `defaultAction` just under `podFailurePolicy`

They are in the order of my preference :)

Reviewer: We should go with 1 and only 2 if there are requests from the community.

The good thing is that the effect requested by @qelo is fully covered.

Additionally, I would like to avoid unnecessary retries of Pods which exceed the

> configured memory constraints.

Author: Yes, I've added it to the sentence. The limit on ephemeral storage was actually set in the example.

This approach is likely to require an iterative process to review and extend of
the list.

#### Story 3

As a service provider, similarly as in [Story 2](#story-2), I would like to
have a mechanism which terminates jobs for which pods are failing due to user
errors. However, I'm concerned that jobs running on a cluster with a broken
configuration might result in costly never-ending Pod retries.

The following Job configuration could be a good starting point to satisfy
my needs:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Job
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: main-job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./program"]
        resources:
          requests:
            memory: "10Gi"
            ephemeral-storage: "10Gi"
          limits:
            memory: "10Gi"
            ephemeral-storage: "100Gi"
  backoffLimit: 8

>   podFailurePolicy:

Reviewer 5: I wonder how the complete list of rules will look in a "best practice" job. Will there ever be the case when `ResourceExhausted` will be retrieable?

Author: I think the “best practice” configuration would be similar to this one (Story 3). 

Generally you want to fail the job if `ResourceExhausted` (as in the example). The only reason would want to retry on `ResourceExhausted` is if the Pod was terminated by OOM killer invoked due to the node running low on memory. Note that, OOM killer invoked due to actual exceeding memory limits by a container is fine and should trigger `FailJob` as it indicates there is a bug (memory leak) or job misconfiguration. Unfortunately, there is currently no way to distinguish the two situations (OOM due to exceeding limits and OOM due to the node running low on memory). We will recommend users to minimize the risk by:
- job configuration specifying requests.memory=limits.memory for all containers
- leaving enough available memory and reserved for the system, see: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/node-pressure-eviction/#node-pressure-eviction-good-practices

Author: Also, rephrased the Risks and Mitigations section to include the second point about kubelet configuration

Reviewer 6: > job configuration specifying requests.memory=limits.memory for all containers

should we then use the warnings mechanism to warn users that when they use failure policy those two should match?

Author: I think this is a sensible idea, but I would restrict the `requests.memory=limits.memory` check only when there is a rule with `ResourceExhausted` as condition type and `FailJob` as action. 

What's your view @alculquicondor @soltysh ?

Reviewer 6: SGTM

Author: Added a paragraph to the  Risks and Mitigations section

#### Relationship with Pod.spec.restartPolicy

> For Alpha we limit this feature by disallowing the use of

Reviewer 3: What's the decision for Beta?

Author: No decision yet. I can see 3 options:
1. Disable the feature for restartPolicy=OnFailure (currently implemented)
2. Enable the feature for restartPolicy=OnFailure, but prevent rules using `onExitCodes` 
3. Enable the feature for restartPolicy=OnFailure and allow for `onExitCodes`.

My preference is for 1. Simple implementations (in which Kubelet is not using pod failure policy rules) of 2 and 3 have the following race conditions:
Kubelet can perform an unnecessary container restart even if the container failed due to exceeding resource limit, matching the FailJob rule using onPodConditions.
(specific to 3): Kubelet can perform an unnecessary container restart even if the exit code of the failed container matches the FailJob rule using onExitCodes.

Author: Ok, removed the corresponding point from graduation criteria and updated the "Relationship with Pod.spec.restartPolicy" section.

#### Relationship with Pod.spec.restartPolicy

> We limit this feature by disallowing the use of `restartPolicy=OnFailure`.

Author: Updated the section

  - `reason=Evicted`
  - `message=The node was low on resource: ephemeral-storage. (...)`
- Container status:
  - `state=Terminated`
  - `exitCode=137`
  - `reason=Error`
- Retriable: Yes

> ##### Container memory limit exceeded

Reviewer: What about storage limits?

Author: Added an analogous section

Linux:

- Reproduction: We run a job with a pod which attempts to allocate more
  memory than constrained in the container spec by `resources.limits.memory`
- Comments: handled by kubelet in `kubelet/kubelet_pods.go` which merges-in the status update from container runtime
- Pod status:
  - status: OOMKilled
  - `phase=Failed`
  - `reason=`
  - `message=`
- Container status:
  - `state=Terminated`
  - `exitCode=137`
  - `reason=OOMKilled`

> - Retriable: No

Reviewer 4: are we doing any validation based on this retriable: no/yes classification?

Author: There is no validation based on this. It was added to describe the most natural handling in the scenario. It is redundant with the `DisruptionTarget` / `ResourceLimitExceeded` choice and does not follow directly from the experiment so I’m leaning towards removing it completely.

Reviewer 4: removing them is better indeed.

Author: Done

Windows:

- Reproduction: We run a job with a pod which attempts to allocate more
  memory than constrained in the container spec by `resources.limits.memory`
- Comments: handled by kubelet in `kubelet/kubelet_pods.go` which merges-in the status update from container runtime
- Pod status:
  - status: Error
  - `phase=Failed`
  - `reason=`
  - `message=`
- Container status:
  - `state=Terminated`
  - `exitCode=1`
  - `reason=Error`
- Retriable: No

##### Graceful node shutdown

- Reproduction: The node needs to be started with positive `shutdownGracePeriod`,
  for example `shutdownGracePeriod=30s`. We run a job with a long-running pod,
  then we prepare the node for shutdown by the command:
  `dbus-send --system --type=signal /org/freedesktop/login1 org.freedesktop.login1.Manager.PrepareForShutdown boolean:"true"`,
  which similulates graceful nodes shutdown for maintenance purposes.

> - Comments: handled by kubelet in `kubelet/nodeshutdown/nodeshutdown_manager_linux.go`

Reviewer: is there a windows version? do we need to add this case to non-goals too?

Author: There is prepared file for "shutdown_manager_others.go" (currently has no logic: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/kubelet/nodeshutdown/nodeshutdown_manager_others.go),
so I assume the events are not handled on Windows. Added a non-goal point.

  then we prepare the node for shutdown by the command:
  `dbus-send --system --type=signal /org/freedesktop/login1 org.freedesktop.login1.Manager.PrepareForShutdown boolean:"true"`,
  which similulates graceful nodes shutdown for maintenance purposes.
- Comments: handled by kubelet in `kubelet/nodeshutdown/nodeshutdown_manager_linux.go`
- Pod status:
  - status: Error
  - `phase=Failed`
  - `reason=Terminated`
  - `message=Pod was terminated in response to imminent node shutdown.`
- Container status:
  - `state=Terminated`
  - `exitCode=137`
  - `reason=Error`

##### Pod admission error

- Reproduction: We run a pod on a node which is under disk pressure
  (tainted with `node.kubernetes.io/disk-pressure:NoSchedule`). In order to
  schedule the pod we untaint the node by command line. The Pod is scheduled
  but fails admission by Kubelet as the taint is re-added shortly after its
  manual removal.
- Comments: controlled by kubelet in `kubelet/kubelet.go`
- Pod status:
  - status: Evicted
  - `phase=Failed`
  - `reason=Evicted`
  - `message=Pod The node had condition: [DiskPressure].`
- No containers created

> ##### Disconnected node

Reviewer: It does, unless you put a finalizer on it, which is what we did to test it.

> ##### Disconnected node

Author: Indeed, added a note to clarify that a finalizer is needed (which is added by the Job controller by default to all pods)

> ##### Disconnected node

Reviewer 7: Ah, thanks for clarifying that finalizer was added.

  - `phase=Failed`
  - `reason=`
  - `message=`
- Container status:
  - `state=Terminated`
  - `exitCode=1`
  - `reason=Error`

##### Container ephemeral-storage limit exceeded

- Reproduction: We run a job with a pod which attempts to consume more disk space
  than constrained in the container spec by `resources.limits.ephemeral-storage`
- Comments: handled by kubelet in `kubelet/eviction/eviction_manager.go`
- Pod status:
  - status: Error
  - `phase=Failed`
  - `reason=Evicted`
  - `message=Pod ephemeral local storage usage exceeds the total limit of containers 1Gi.`
- Container status:
  - `state=Terminated`
  - `exitCode=137`
  - `reason=Error`

##### Graceful node shutdown

- Reproduction: The node needs to be started with positive `shutdownGracePeriod`,
  for example `shutdownGracePeriod=30s`. We run a job with a long-running pod,
  then we prepare the node for shutdown by the command:
  `dbus-send --system --type=signal /org/freedesktop/login1 org.freedesktop.login1.Manager.PrepareForShutdown boolean:"true"`,
  which similulates graceful nodes shutdown for maintenance purposes.
- Comments: handled by kubelet in `kubelet/nodeshutdown/nodeshutdown_manager_linux.go`

> - Pod status:

Author: If a container intercepts SIGTERM and exits with 0 the Pod phase will be Succeeded. Also, the `message` is not set and the `reason` field is set to `Completed`. I have updated the section with results of the experiment.

> - Pod status:

Reviewer 5: so if job was running on the preemptible node and haven't finished when node was taken away, job dumped all temporary calculations into the temporary storage on graceful termination, is there a way to indicate that the job hasn't finished and needs to be restarted? Can non-zero exit code be returned in this case?

> - Pod status:

Reviewer 5: I am mostly asking to make sure we are giving a clear messaging on how things has to be implemented. Graceful termination is heavily used by jobs and we need to give a clear and reliable practice on how jobs need to react on graceful termination and set up the retry codes

> - Pod status:

Reviewer: I think that story becomes more clear: the container could exit with a specific non-zero code.

Then, users can setup a podFailurePolicy to retry on that exit code.

> - Pod status:

Reviewer 5: Yes, I am advocating for testing this scenario and writing it explicitly. Also things got complicated by this issue: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/112443#issuecomment-1255364980 where it _seems like_ pods are signalled to start termination but was never marked as neither succeeded nor failed.

Also interesting how one will express that the job needs to get restarted if failed while storing data during graceful termination, but not on other failures. Is this a scenario?

  - status: Error
  - `phase=Failed`
  - `reason=Terminated`
  - `message=Pod was terminated in response to imminent node shutdown.`
- Container status:
  - `state=Terminated`
  - `exitCode=137`
  - `reason=Error`

> ##### Pod admission error

Reviewer 5: similar can likely be achieved when static pod that is taking over the leftover of resources is scheduled while job is in process of being scheduled on the node. The message will likely be different

Author: indeed, there are a couple of scenarios. Updated the KEP to mention that explicitely.

- Reproduction: We run a pod on a node which is under disk pressure
  (tainted with `node.kubernetes.io/disk-pressure:NoSchedule`). In order to
  schedule the pod we untaint the node by command line. The Pod is scheduled
  but fails admission by Kubelet as the taint is re-added shortly after its
  manual removal.
- Comments: controlled by kubelet in `kubelet/kubelet.go`
- Pod status:
  - status: Evicted
  - `phase=Failed`
  - `reason=Evicted`

>   - `message=Pod The node had condition: [DiskPressure].`

Reviewer 5: interesting message. Is it really "Pod The node..."?

Reviewer 5: perhaps needs changing to improve usability

Author: Indeed, I think it is because the error for generating admission errors prefixes the messages with "Pod": https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/8ac009f66d2aca70489b9299b7bf73dc19423268/pkg/kubelet/kubelet.go#L1963
while the message downstream is templated like this: 
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/8ac009f66d2aca70489b9299b7bf73dc19423268/pkg/kubelet/eviction/helpers.go#L44

Author: Ticketed separately from the KEP: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/112605

  - `reason=Evicted`
  - `message=The node was low on resource: ephemeral-storage. (...)`
- Container status:
  - `state=Terminated`
  - `exitCode=137`
  - `reason=Error`

##### Container memory limit exceeded

Linux:

- Reproduction: We run a job with a pod which attempts to allocate more
  memory than constrained in the container spec by `resources.limits.memory`
- Comments: handled by kubelet in `kubelet/kubelet_pods.go` which merges-in the status update (setting of the reason field) by the container runtime
- Pod status:
  - status: OOMKilled
  - `phase=Failed`
  - `reason=`
  - `message=`
- Container status:
  - `state=Terminated`
  - `exitCode=137`
  - `reason=OOMKilled`

Windows:

- Reproduction: We run a job with a pod which attempts to allocate more
  memory than constrained in the container spec by `resources.limits.memory`

> - Comments: there is not clear indication that the container failed due to exceeding memory limit

Reviewer 6: We need to ensure this is properly documented in API that this is not yet functioning on Windows, same for graceful node shutdown.

Author: Limits are respected on Windows are enforced and containers are killed (tested). The issue is that we don't have a clear indication in the pod state of the reason. So, it should be probably documented in the API for the `ResourceExhausted` condition. 

I guess we can document it in comments for the `DisruptionTarget` and `ResourceExhausted` constants here: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/de693b5e2d165081ef52dda83cd3aa3398f263b0/pkg/apis/core/types.go#L2436 during implementation.

Reviewer 2: For my curiosity, can someone share the workload/container they used to test this on Windows?
I want to look at logs and see if we can get Windows to better report _why_ the container was killed.

Author: Sure, it is a workload for testing :)

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: test-script
data:
  eat.py: |
    import time, sys
    print("Hello world\n")

    CHUNK_SIZE = 1000000
    INIT_CHUNK_SIZE = 10000000
    init_chunk = ' ' * INIT_CHUNK_SIZE

    chunks = []
    allocated = 0
    chunks.append(init_chunk)
    allocated += len(init_chunk)
    for i in range(20000):
      chunk = str(i % 10) * CHUNK_SIZE
      chunks.append(chunk)
      allocated += len(chunk)

      print("Allocated: " + str(allocated) + ", waiting...")
      time.sleep(0.02)
---
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: job-oom-limit-win
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      affinity:
        nodeAffinity:
          requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
            nodeSelectorTerms:
            - matchExpressions:
              - key: kubernetes.io/os
                operator: In
                values:
                - windows
      volumes:
      - name: test-script
        configMap:
          name: test-script
      containers:
      - name: job-oom-limit
        image: winamd64/python
        command: ["python"]
        resources:
          limits:
            memory: "100Mi"
        args:
        - /test-script/eat.py
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        volumeMounts:
          - mountPath: /test-script
            name: test-script
      restartPolicy: Never
  backoffLimit: 0
```

  - `reason=`
  - `message=`
- Container status:
  - `state=Terminated`
  - `exitCode=137`
  - `reason=Error`
- Retriable: Yes

#### Termination initiated by Kubelet

> For Alpha, we limit the feature by not recognizing Pod failures initiated
> by Kubelet.

Reviewer: Just some rephrasing for clarity:

```suggestion
In Alpha, there is no support for Pod conditions for failures or disruptions initiated by kubelet.
```

condition that it was preempted, when it actually wasn't. This in turn

> could lead to inproper handling of the pod by the job controller.

Reviewer 3: What if job controller looks at it before "disruption controller" cleans the condition?

Author: Pods remain transparent to the Job controller until they are in a terminal state (Succeeded or Failed) or are scheduled for deletion (deletionTimestamp != nil). So a pod, with a stale disruption condition will either:
1. continue running, being transparent to the job controller, until the disruption condition is cleaned
2. continue running till completion (potentially fail) before the disruption controller removes the stale condition. Then, the stale condition may remain and be checked by the job controller.

Reviewer 3: Ok. But if the pod remains transparent for the Job controller, what's the point of cleaning the condition? Do we consider hypothetical users of the conditions other than the Job controller? I guess it could be considered a little cleaner, but it would still be a race condition trap for those other users to rely only on the condition without deletionTimestamp, right? Couldn't we say that the condition is only relevant/reliable/usable if deletionTimestamp is set, and therefore we don't need to clean it up?

Reviewer: What's the concern with cleaning it up? This is already implementing it btw.

Also, the Pod might eventually finish by it's own means (and get a deletionTimestamp). At this point, the PodCondition might not be accurate.

Reviewer 3: Just the concern around unnecessary code (not a huge concern, but trying to understand). It's always something to maintain, so I'd prefer to not have code without purpose. :)

If the purpose is for pods that finish on its own - fair enough. But additional concern that it's masking the race conditions that are still there, and creates false impression that it's okay to rely on the condition. E.g. for the case you mentioned, I guess it's still possible that the pod finishes on its own before the disruption controller cleans the stale condition?

(Btw. is the disruption controller needed for other things, or just this?)

Reviewer: That is correct, in the mentioned scenario, the condition is not accurate. We can add this to the "risks and mitigations" section.

On the bright side, it's unlikely to happen. The sequence of events is:
1. a controller decides that a pod should be disrupted
2. the controller adds the condition successfully
3. the Pod deletion call fails
4. the controller restarts and doesn't think that this pod should be disrupted again

Having the removal is a single place (the disruption controller) makes it so that we only have to deal with the logic once. Otherwise we have to go into each controller, watch pods and delete the condition if the pod was not marked as to-be-disrupted somewhere in an in-memory cache. This sounds like overkill.

Author: I have added the risks and mitigation section: "Stale DisruptionTarget condition which is not clean up"

> #### Evolving condition types

Reviewer 3: What about adding/removing reasons within DisruptionTarget/ResourceLimitExceeded? Will it be considered a non-breaking change? (perhaps it can, but we should document that users should rely on generic sense of "disrupted for cluster management" rather than specifics of current reasons)

Author: Currently there is no API to match pod conditions based on the reason field. The reasons listed in "Design details" are only to gain consensus on naming them for the implementation purposes. See the added paragraph in the "Design details" section.

  - `reason=`
  - `message=`
- Container status:
  - `state=Terminated`
  - `exitCode=137`
  - `reason=Error`

#### Termination initiated by Kubelet

In Alpha, there is no support for Pod conditions for failures or disruptions initiated by kubelet.

For Beta we introduce handling of Pod failures initiated by Kubelet by adding
dedicated Pod conditions. In particular, we add the condition in case a pod is

> evicted due to exceeded memory or ephemeral-storage limits.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
evicted due to exceeded memory (only Linux) or ephemeral-storage limits.
```

condition type will require an API review. The constants will allow users of the
package to reduce the risk of typing mistakes.

Additionally, we introduce a pair of generic condition types:

> - `DisruptionTarget`: indicates pod disruption (due to e.g. preemption,

Reviewer 4: just `Disrupted` might be sufficient and it is analogous to `ResourceLimitExceeded` in describing what happened to the pod.

Author: Our motivation to call it `DisruptionTarget` was that the actual Pod deletion may not happen. For example, kube-scheduler wants to preempt a pod so it adds the DisruptionTarget condition. However, the actual deletion may fail and another Pod might be chosen the next time. In order to clean up the potential stale DisruptionTarget conditions we have added the disruption worker: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/111475.

On the other hand the fact that the operation is performed in two steps seems to be a leaking implementation detail. For example, if there is an API for atomic Pod status update and deletion then we could do it in one step. Then `Disrupted` would be the preferred name. @alculquicondor  any opinion?

Author: Ok, let's stay with `DisruptedTarget` unless some new suggestion or argument.

Reviewer 4: Sounds good if that is the case, although I expect the name to leave some users a bit puzzled

API-initiated eviction or taint-based eviction).
- `ResourceLimitExceeded`: indicates the pod is evicted due to exceeding
one of it's configured limits (e.g. on memory or ephemeral-storage).

The more detailed information about the reason of disruption or the exceeded
resource limit is conveyed by the `reason` and `message` fields of the added pod

> condition.

Reviewer 4: IIUC, it seems that users can only define policy based on the condition type only and not also based on the reason, if true, please mention that explicitly.

Author: Indeed, matching by `reason` is not supported currently. I have added a paragraph in the section to mention it explicitly. Please take a look.

Reviewer: What kind of "more detailed information"? You can say the actor that initiated it or the resource type that is exceeded.

Author: Updated

condition that it was preempted, when it actually wasn't. This in turn
could lead to inproper handling of the pod by the job controller.

As a solution we implement a worker, part of the disruption
controller, which clears the pod condition added if `DeletionTimestamp` is
not added to the pod for a long enough time (for example 2 minutes).

> #### Marking pods as Failed

Reviewer: A pod might not be ready while still running. We want to count failed pods (stopped running). I think it's fair to set the phase from the podgc if the Node does not exist.

> #### Marking pods as Failed

Reviewer 7: Yes, I suppose that would make sense if the node does not exist. 

In general the pod should be deleted if the node does not exist, but if there is a finalizer as you mentioned, that won't work. In that case, I suppose it would make sense to set the phase as well (since kubelet would not be able to set it any longer).

- DeletionByTaintManager (Pod evicted by kube-controller-manager due to taints)
- EvictionByEvictionAPI (Pod deleted by Eviction API)
- DeletionByPodGC (an orphaned Pod deleted by pod GC)
- DeletionByKubelet (Pod deleted due to node shutdown, node pressure or Pod admission errors)

We introduce a Pod condition type, called `ResourceLimitExceeded`, used by Kubelet
to indicate that a Pod failure is caused by exceeding pod's (or container's) resource
limits. We add the following reason types to indicate the resource limit which
was exceeded:
- MemoryLimitExceeded (limit on container's memory is exceeded)
- ContainerEphemeralStorageLimitExceeded (limit on container's emphemeral-storage is exceeded)
- EmptyDirLimitExceeded (limit on pod's empty-dir storage is exceeded)

> - PodEphemeralStorageLimitExceeded (limit on total pod's emphemeral-storage is exceeded).

Reviewer 4: Since users can't define policies in the proposed API based on those reasons, please clarify why we are defining those constants and how we expect users/controllers to make use of them.

Author: `We list the reason constants above in order to gain the community consensus on informative names.` as in the added paragraph. However, I would also be ok with either removing the proposed names from KEP (to leave them as an implementation detail as for messages) or with implementing support for matching by the `reason` field.

Reviewer: We are just trying to be informative. However, I would just have two reasons: MemoryLimitExceeded and EphemeralStorageLimitExceeded. Otherwise, can you clarify what's the difference?

Author: I squeezed them into `EphemeralStorageLimitExceeded` for now. Alternatively, we could name it `LocalStorageLimitExceeded` which is the name used in the Kubelet code (https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/9e65786254c438942ca45d2c447d6318417fc287/pkg/kubelet/eviction/eviction_manager.go#L455) to also include `emptyDir` (which is set by the `sizeLimit` property: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.24/#emptydirvolumesource-v1-core). On the other hand `emptyDir` is also an ephemeral volume https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/ephemeral-volumes/, so the name `EphemeralStorageLimitExceeded` sounds good.

- `ResourceLimitExceeded`: indicates the pod is evicted due to exceeding
one of it's configured limits (e.g. on memory or ephemeral-storage).

A more detailed information about the condition (containing the kubernetes
component name which initiated the disruption or the resource name for the
exceeded resource limit) is conveyed by the `reason` and `message` fields of
the added pod condition.

Finally, we are going to cover the handling of pod failures associated with the
new pod condition types in integration tests.

#### Stale DisruptionTarget condition which is not cleaned up

It is possible that a stale disruption condition
(see: [Failing delete after a condition is added](#failing-delete-after-a-condition-is-added))

> is not clean up by the disruption controller if the Pod completes. Further, if the

Reviewer: is not cleaned up before a Pod terminates for a different reason.

Author: Rephrased.

Pod fails, the remaining condition can misguide the Job controller. For example,
if the Job spec has a rule to ignore pod failures with the `DisruptionTarget`
condition added, then it will result in an unnecessary Pod restart.

> We assess this is an acceptable risk given that the scenario is unlikely and

Reviewer: explain what is the scenario that is unlikely: that a Pod deletion call fails right after the Pod status update succeeded, and that conditions in the cluster change at the same time (for example, that a NoExecute taint is removed).

Author: Explained and rephrased the section.

However, as disabling taint-manager is deprecated it is not a concern for this
KEP.

For Alpha, we implemented a fix for this issue by setting the pod phase as `Failed`
in podgc.

For Beta, we are going to simplify the code in job controller
responsible for detecting pod failures. For this purpose we are going to introduce

> a worker in the disruption controller to mark pods stuck in the pending phase,

Reviewer: What cases will this cover? Can you check what happens in particular for:

- Unschedulable pods (for example, with node affinity to a node that doesn't exist).
- Unknown docker image. Once you mark the pod for deletion, would kubelet leave it in Pending phase?

Author: Done experiments. It turns out that the first case of terminating unchedulable pods is already covered by PodGC in this branch: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/7f129f1c9af62cc3cd4f6b754dacdf5932f39d5c/pkg/controller/podgc/gc_controller.go#L289. The scheduled terminating pods which are in the pending phase currently remain in this phase. 

However, since one of the two scenarios is already covered by PodGC I think instead of introducing another disruption controller worker it will be simpler to extend PodGC. Adjusted the KEP accordingly.

with the `OOMKiller` reason in both cases). As a consequence, the
`ResourceExhausted` condition might be added to a terminated pod even if the
pod's containers didn't exceed their configured limits. This in turn, may lead
to invoking the `FailJob` action if a user configures the job's pod failure
policy to interpret the presence of `ResourceExhausted` as a non-retriable failure.

In order to mitigate this risk we are going to describe the scenario and the
risk clearly in the documentation. Further, in order to minimize the risk we
recommend:
- configuring `requests.memory`=`limits.memory` for all pod containers
- leaving enough available memory and enough memory reserved for the system, see:
[best practices for node-pressure eviction configuration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/node-pressure-eviction/#node-pressure-eviction-good-practices).

Additionally, we are going to introduce a validation step to check if the job
configuration contains a container for which `requests.memory`!=`limits.memory`
and there is a pod failure policy rule on the `ResourceExhausted` pod condition
type with action `FailJob`.

> In the future, if there is a motivating user feedback, we might consider

Author: Added a section on this and graduation criteria for GA to discuss the standarization and extension of the API.

invocation context.

We list the reason constants above in order to gain the community consensus on
informative names, but they are purely informational. It is not supported to use the `reason` or `message` fields
when defining a pod failure policy (see `PodFailurePolicyOnPodConditionsPattern`
in [JobSpec API](#jobspec-api)). Supporting of matching by the `reason` field
is a possible extension of the feature which can be implemented once there is
use case to motivate it. However, it may create a risk of breaking compatibility
with evolving set of reasons in use, similar to the risk of
[evolving condition types](#evolving-condition-types).

### Detection and handling of exceeded limits

We modify kubelet to add the `ResourceLimitExceeded` condition if the memory
or ephemeral-storage limits are exceeded.

In particular, we detect that the memory limits were execeed based on the

> container's `reason` field being equal to `OOMKilled`. This value is set on

Reviewer: We need more details on when we add this condition.

OOMKilled could happen for other reasons. For example, imagine this scenario:
The Node has 2Gb available, pod A has requests=limits=1Gb, pod B has no requests, but 2Gb limit. If pod A is using the entire 1Gb, and pod B uses more than 1 but less than 2Gb, then it might still get killed, even though it's not exceeding the limit.

Maybe we can say that the condition will only be added if requests and limits are set and they are equal.

Or maybe we can rename the PodCondition to `NodeResourcePressure`? Then it should apply in all cases, and users can decide whether they want to use this condition if they know that they only have pods with guaranteed QoS?

Reviewer 4: Lets change the name to better indicate that this covers all cases, there is no reason to limit this condition to guaranteed QoS pods. I was already assuming that limit in `ResourceLimitExceeded` was meant to indicate "resources the pod is eligible for", but indeed better to use a different name.

`NodeResourcePressure` is not a good name because the pod will be evicted if it exceeds its memory limits even if the node wasn't under memory pressure.

may be `EligibleResourcesExceeded` or `ResourceCapExceeded`?

Author: > We need more details on when we add this condition.
> 
> OOMKilled could happen for other reasons. For example, imagine this scenario: The Node has 2Gb available, pod A has requests=limits=1Gb, pod B has no requests, but 2Gb limit. If pod A is using the entire 1Gb, and pod B uses more than 1 but less than 2Gb, then it might still get killed, even though it's not exceeding the limit.

In this scenario there will be a NodeDiskPressure condition added to the node (as >2Gb) is used. Then, the eviction manager tries to delete a Pod to find space. It ranks the Pods according to the function: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/918f84cd90d121c6624fca5c6eb7b36335030ea0/pkg/kubelet/eviction/helpers.go#L639. Assuming both A & B have the same priority B will be deleted as it uses more disk space. In the KEP (as currently) we will add the DisruptionTarget condition to the Pod with the “DeletedByKubelet” reason which I think is reasonable.

Author: > Or maybe we can rename the PodCondition to `NodeResourcePressure`? Then it should apply in all cases, and users can decide whether they want to use this condition if they know that they only have pods with guaranteed QoS?

I don’t like `NodeResourcePressure` for two reasons:
- `Resource` in name suggests it also covers disk, but ephemeral-storage limits are covered by an explicit check in kubelet
- `Pressure` in name suggests it is due to node pressure, but we propose to handle node-pressure eviction by adding DisruptionTarget

If we just want to change the name, then I suggest `OOMKilled`.

Then we would have for memory: 
- OOMKilled (renamed from ResourceLimitExceeded)
- DisruptionTarget for node memory pressure eviction
For ephemeral storage we would have:
- EphemeralStorageLimitExceeded  (renamed from ResourceLimitExceeded), if the explicit check is violated
- DisruptionTarget for node disk pressure eviction

Alternatively, if we want to still have the generic `ResourceLimitExceeded` condition, then I suggest:
- OOMKilled + ResourceLimitExceeded if requests.memory = limits.memory for the killed container  (based on the suggested check for limits = requests)
- OOMKilled only if limits.memory < requests.memory or requests.memory undefined for the killed container
- DisruptionTarget when deleted due to memory pressure
For ephemeral storage without changes:
- ResourceLimitExceeded - if the explicit check is violated
- DisruptionTarget for node disk pressure eviction

Author: Let's summarize the current discussion with the list of currently leading approaches:

1. rename `ResourceLimitExceeded` to account for the fact that the limits may not necessarily be exceeded in case of memory as OOM killer can kill a container before it actually exceeds its limit. Proposed names include: `NodeResourcePressure`, `EligibleResourcesExceeded`, `ResourceCapExceeded`. Let me add `ResourcePressure`, `ResourceLimitPressure`.

2. rename  `ResourceLimitExceeded` to `OOMKilled` for memory and to `EphemeralStorageLimitExceeded` for disk. Alternative names which do not leak the OOM-based implementation include: `MemoryPressure`, `MemoryLimitPressure`.

3. continue to use `ResourceLimitExceeded`, but introduce a special case when `resources.limits` is unspecified or greater than `resources.requests` for memory. In that case introduce a dedicated condition reflecting our uncertainty about the limits being actually exceeded. Proposed names: `OOMKilled` (leaks the implementation detail), `MemoryPressure` (preferred), `MemoryLimitPressure`, `ResourceLimitPressure`, `ResourceLimitAboutBeingExceeded`.

My preference goes for 3, because we keep the generic name which is descriptive and accurate for both memory and disk. For the situation when we are uncertain we introduce a dedicated condition. 

@bobbypage @ahg-g @alculquicondor  please share your view / knowledge / opinions.

Reviewer: Let's start with what's clear:
When the kubelet (as opposed to the kernel) evicts the pod before it reaches the limit (for memory and storage), we should add a `DisruptionTarget` condition. Probably with a reason along the lines of `NodeMemoryPressure`, `NodeEphemeralStoragePressure`.

In general, I would prefer that we keep a small set of conditions to make it easier for users to write Job pod failure policies. I think option 1 is closer to the ideal. However, it's indeed hard to find a name that doesn't use the word pressure (that would conflict with the reasons above) and encompasses both storage and memory. Maybe the solution is something a bit less intuitive, like: `ResourceReclaimed` or `ResourceExhausted` (note the absence of Limit in the name), with reasons `OOMKilled`, `EphemeralStoragePressure` (this case would also get a `DisruptionTarget` condition) and `EphemeralStorageLimit`. Then we can document that when requests.memory=limits.memory, it is guaranteed that this condition is equivalent to "limit exceeded".

If we can't agree on the names, then the way to go would be to have more specific conditions, in which case option 2 is probably better.

Reviewer 4: I discussed with @SergeyKanzhelev, and he mentioned that the memory pressure logic we have in kubelet is based on a metric scraped from cadvisor, the granularity of scraping is ~1min, so there is a good chance that the kernel will be the one acting on killing the pod when sudden spikes happen.

With that being said, I would focus on what the user will be trying to do to guide us in how we build the API: In general, users will likely want to fail jobs when their pods get killed because of exceeding the memory limit they set (because likely this indicates a bug on their side), but retry when they get killed because of memory pressure.

For pods killed by the kernel we can't distinguish between the case where they were killed because of limit exceeded or because of memory pressure; therefore, whether or not we have a separate condition for OOMKilled will not really help the user because they will likely set a policy to fail the job on OOMKill condition anyway plus the EphemeralStorageLimitExceeded. So might as well just have a single condition for both (option 1).

In summary, I think a single condition (option 1) will be simpler than being more granular (option 2), yet just as useful.

Author: Ok, let's explore option 1. What would be the name? Out of the proposed names my preference goes to `ResourceExhausted`.

Reviewer: maybe `NodeResourceExhausted` to be more specific.

Reviewer 4: It will be the pod's resources that were exhausted when it exceeds its limits, not the node. I would go with `ResourceExhausted` alone.

Author: I prefer `ResourceExhaused` too, renamed.

Linux by the container runtime. However, there is no analogous indication of
exceeded memory limits on Windows (see: [Container memory limit exceeded](#container-memory-limit-exceeded)).
Thus, the condition `ResourceLimitExceeded` will not be added on Windows. We leave
it as a limitation (see: [Non-Goals](non-goals)).

> For detection of the ephemeral-storage limits being exceeded we reuse the pre-existing

Author: Updated

invocation context.

We list the reason constants above in order to gain the community consensus on
informative names, but they are purely informational. It is not supported to use the `reason` or `message` fields
when defining a pod failure policy (see `PodFailurePolicyOnPodConditionsPattern`
in [JobSpec API](#jobspec-api)). Supporting of matching by the `reason` field
is a possible extension of the feature which can be implemented once there is
use case to motivate it. However, it may create a risk of breaking compatibility
with evolving set of reasons in use, similar to the risk of
[evolving condition types](#evolving-condition-types).

### Detection and handling of exceeded limits

We modify kubelet to add the `ResourceExhausted` condition if ephemeral-storage
limits are exceeded or the Pod is terminated by Out-Of-Memory (OOM) killer.

For detection of the ephemeral-storage limits being exceeded we reuse the pre-existing
Kubelet code responsible for detection and eviction of Pods exceeding the limits (the code
includes detection of both exceeding of the `emptyDir` size limit and pod's
ephemeral-storage limits defined for containers). We extend the

> eviction-triggering code to add the `ResourceExhausted` condition.

Reviewer: Can you clarify whether we will add the `ResourceExhausted` condition if the node has storage pressure but the limit is not exceeded?

We should also clarify in `Risks and Mitigations` that it's not possible to distinguish if OOMKiller is caused by limit exceeded or pressure. And the mitigation is documentation. And we recommend only using this condition with `FailJob` if requests=limits for all pods in a node. But still, even in that case, there can be cases where the pod is OOMKilled due to a system process (including kubelet itself) exhausting memory.

Author: Added, PTAL :)

We detect that the Pod was terminated due to OOM killer based on the
container's `reason` field being equal to `OOMKilled`. This value is set on
Linux by the container runtime.

Note that, the OOM Killer terminates a pod if one of the Pods containers
exceeeds its configured limit. However, a pod may also be terminated if the
node's memory is exhausted.

Also note, there is no analogous indication of exceeded memory limits on Windows
(see: [Container memory limit exceeded](#container-memory-limit-exceeded)).
Thus, the condition `ResourceExhausted` will not be added on Windows. We leave
it as a limitation (see: [Non-Goals](non-goals)).

> ### Interim FailureTarget condition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Interim FailureTarget Job condition
```

informative names, but they are purely informational. It is not supported to use the `reason` or `message` fields
when defining a pod failure policy (see `PodFailurePolicyOnPodConditionsPattern`
in [JobSpec API](#jobspec-api)). Supporting of matching by the `reason` field
is a possible extension of the feature which can be implemented once there is
use case to motivate it. However, it may create a risk of breaking compatibility
with evolving set of reasons in use, similar to the risk of
[evolving condition types](#evolving-condition-types).

### Detection and handling of exceeded limits

We modify kubelet to add the `ResourceExhausted` condition if ephemeral-storage
limits are exceeded or the Pod is terminated by Out-Of-Memory (OOM) killer.

For detection of the ephemeral-storage limits being exceeded we reuse the pre-existing
Kubelet code responsible for detection and eviction of Pods exceeding the limits (the code
includes detection of both exceeding of the `emptyDir` size limit and pod's
ephemeral-storage limits defined for containers). We extend the
eviction-triggering code to add the `ResourceExhausted` condition.

> In case when a pod is evicted by Kubelet due to disk pressure disk pressure, but

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In case when a pod is evicted by Kubelet due to disk pressure, but
```

- DeletionByTaintManager (Pod evicted by kube-controller-manager due to taints)
- EvictionByEvictionAPI (Pod deleted by Eviction API)
- DeletionByPodGC (an orphaned Pod deleted by pod GC)
- DeletionByKubelet (Pod deleted due to graceful node shutdown, node pressure or Pod admission errors).

We introduce a Pod condition type, called `ResourceExhausted`, used by Kubelet
to indicate that a Pod failure is caused by exhausting pod's (or container's)
resource (memory or ephemeral-storage). We set the `reason` field to indicate
the reason to one of the values:
- OOMKilled (Pod is terminated by OOM killer)
- EphemeralStorageLimitExceeded (a limit on the Pod's emphemeral-storage is exceeded).

The already existing `status.conditions` field in Pod will be used by kubernetes
components to append a dedicated condition.

> The API call to append the condition will be issued as a pod status update call

Author: Indeed, but it does not need to be the last update request before the delete request, but the order is important. This way the Job controller will be able to see the condition when handling a failed pod.

> The API call to append the condition will be issued as a pod status update call

Reviewer 7: Got it, makes sense.

in [JobSpec API](#jobspec-api)). Supporting of matching by the `reason` field
is a possible extension of the feature which can be implemented once there is
use case to motivate it. However, it may create a risk of breaking compatibility
with evolving set of reasons in use, similar to the risk of
[evolving condition types](#evolving-condition-types).

### Detection and handling of exceeded limits

We modify kubelet to add the `ResourceExhausted` condition if ephemeral-storage
limits are exceeded or the Pod is terminated by Out-Of-Memory (OOM) killer.

For detection of the ephemeral-storage limits being exceeded we reuse the pre-existing
Kubelet code responsible for detection and eviction of Pods exceeding the limits (the code
includes detection of both exceeding of the `emptyDir` size limit and pod's
ephemeral-storage limits defined for containers). We extend the
eviction-triggering code to add the `ResourceExhausted` condition.

In case when a pod is evicted by Kubelet due to disk pressure, but
the storage limits are not exceeded the `DisruptionTarget` condition is added,
but not `ResourceExhausted`.

We detect that a pod was terminated due to OOM killer based on the

> container's `reason` field being equal to `OOMKilled`. This value is set on

Reviewer 7: just a comment: I'm not sure if container runtimes anywhere standardized on using OOMKilled as the reason for a OOM Kill, this is just a string the CRI sets. It does appear to be done on containerd [1] and crio [2] though, so I suppose we should be good, but might be worth to note that it would good to add this as a "formal" requirement from the container runtime since this feature is taking dependency on this behavior. 

[1] https://github.com/containerd/containerd/blob/main/pkg/cri/server/helpers.go#L62

[2] https://github.com/cri-o/cri-o/blob/main/server/container_status.go#L88-L89

Author: Added "Broken compatibility of communicating OOM kills between container runtime and kubelet" to the Risks and Mitigations section. As a mitigation for Beta we can offer documantation. For GA we are going to discuss standarization at the CRI level and adjust the implementation accordingly based on the outcomes.

Author: Kicked off the discussion as a message on the CNCF Tag Runtime mailing list: [Standardization of the OOM kill communication between container runtime and kubelet
](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-tag-runtime/topic/standardization_of_the_oom/94093173?p=,,,20,0,0,0::recentpostdate/sticky,,,20,2,0,94093173,previd%3D1664811793498490629,nextid%3D1637210209940337491&previd=1664811793498490629&nextid=1637210209940337491)

Linux by the container runtime.

Note that, the OOM Killer terminates a pod if one of the Pods containers
exceeeds its configured limit. However, a pod may also be terminated if the
node's memory is exhausted. This creates a risk of OOM killer terminating a
pod's container event if its limits are not exceeded. As a consequence users
should be careful when configuring the job's pod failure policy using the
`ResourceExhausted` condition
(see: [OOM killer invoked when memory limits are not exceeded](#oom-killer-invoked-when-memory-limits-are-not-exceeded)).

Also note, there is no analogous indication of exceeded memory limits on Windows
(see: [Container memory limit exceeded](#container-memory-limit-exceeded)).
Thus, the condition `ResourceExhausted` will not be added on Windows. We leave
it as a limitation (see: [Non-Goals](non-goals)).

Similarly as in case of disk pressure, when a pod is evicted by kubelet due to
memory pressure on the node, but it is not OOM killed, then the `DisruptionTarget`

> condition is added only, but not `ResourceExhausted`.

Author: I have prototyped adding of the `ResourceExhausted` condition with `OOMKIlled` as reason for OOM-killed pods: https://github.com/mimowo/kubernetes/tree/handling-pod-failures-beta-kubelet-prototype (commits: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/commit/e994b27644bad853e542725c00cf54ec637e0e87)

In this prototype I inject the code into the generateAPIPodStatus: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/e994b27644bad853e542725c00cf54ec637e0e87/pkg/kubelet/kubelet_pods.go#L1445. It invokes this new function to add the condition: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/e994b27644bad853e542725c00cf54ec637e0e87/pkg/kubelet/kubelet_pods.go#L1554.

> condition is added only, but not `ResourceExhausted`.

Reviewer 7: Got it, thanks for detailing this in the KEP.

      - name: main-job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./program"]
        resources:
          limits:
            memory: "128Mi"
            ephemeral-storage: "1Gi"
      - name: monitoring-job-container
        image: job-monitoring
        command: ["./monitoring"]
        resources:
          limits:
            memory: "128Mi"
            ephemeral-storage: "1Gi"
  backoffLimit: 3
  podFailurePolicy:
    rules:
    - action: FailJob
      onExitCodes:
        containerName: main-job-container
        operator: In
        values: [1,2,3]
    - action: FailJob
      onPodConditions:
      - type: ResourceLimitExceeded
    - action: Ignore
      onPodConditions:
      - type: DisruptionTarget
```

Note that, it may happen that both the `DisruptionTarget` condition and
`ResourceLimitExceeded` conditions are both added to the failed Pod status. This
may happen when different components (for example `kube-apiserver` and `kubelet`)
update the Pod status. Thus, in order to account for violation of the configured
resource limits in such scenario, we recommend to configure the rule for

> handling `ResourceLimitExceeded` before the rule for handling the `DisruptionTarget`.

Author: Adjusted

  ...
```

> Note that, we do not introduce the `NotIn` operator in

Reviewer: why remove this?

Author: It is a leftover note for the API where we could match pod conditions by the "operator and values" syntax. Now we provide a list of patterns, so the note is misleading.

- Address reviews and bug reports from Alpha users
- E2e tests are in Testgrid and linked in KEP
- implementation of adding a dedicated pod condition by Kubelet when
  terminating a Pod (see: [Termination initiated by Kubelet](#termination-initiated-by-kubelet))
- Simplify the code in job controller responsible for detection of failed pods
  based on the fix for pods stuck in the running phase (see: [Marking pods as Failed](marking-pods-as-failed)).
  Also, introduce a worker in the disruption controller to mark pods
  stuck in the pending phase, with set deletionTimestamp, as failed.
- Commonize the code for appending pod conditions between components
- Do not update the pod disruption condition (with type=`DisruptionTarget`) if
  it is already present with `status=True`

> - Re-evaluate and implement if feasible adding of pod conditions with the use of

Author: @lavalamp @liggitt @alculquicondor  question regarding the use of SSA for appending the disruption conditions for pod failures which is added as a graduation Beta based on discussions: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/110959/commits/04fcbd721cd3e72eb9375275891e9bc3e28c3341#r929159947 and https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/110959#issuecomment-1199481270. Do you think we keep it as a graduation criteria for Beta or it could be ticketed as an independent PR? I’m asking because there are already a number of things planned for Beta and applying SSA would also substantial changes to unit tests.

Reviewer 8: Are we currently using Patch or Update? I'd want to make sure we are using patch before graduating to beta to avoid needing to handle retries on the client side, but I don't feel strongly about whether SSA patch is used

Author: We use Patch:
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/661899f1a14680840e06c84bc3ff46f73d203012/pkg/controller/nodelifecycle/scheduler/taint_manager.go#L135
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/661899f1a14680840e06c84bc3ff46f73d203012/pkg/controller/podgc/gc_controller.go#L339
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/661899f1a14680840e06c84bc3ff46f73d203012/pkg/scheduler/framework/preemption/preemption.go#L356
only from within apiserver we call Update:
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/661899f1a14680840e06c84bc3ff46f73d203012/pkg/registry/core/pod/storage/eviction.go#L315

Reviewer 8: sgtm

Reviewer 9: Patch doesn't prevent retries depending on how you do it. The patch computation I clicked through to appears to include the RV, which means there will be retries needed. (assuming it started with an object with RV set, which I don't know for sure).

If you don't include the RV, then it's very difficult to produce a patch that will reference a specific condition, since they are a named list.

I think you will have to do SSA to get the property Jordan asked for. But I'm not actually sure that property is super important.

(However if retries are needed you need to do them or it seems like this feature won't work correctly.)

Reviewer: Actually, it looks like the resource version is trimmed https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/661899f1a14680840e06c84bc3ff46f73d203012/pkg/util/pod/pod.go#L49

Reviewer 9: You are right.

What prevents the resulting patch from modifying the wrong condition if one is added/removed in a race?

Author: I don't think there is anything that prevents it. I tested the following scenario in integration tests:
- add condition with type: "ConditionType1" 
- generate a patch (1) to delete the "ConditionType1" condition
- generate a patch (2) to add a condition with type: "ConditionType2"
- apply the patch (2) to add the condition "ConditionType2"
- apply the patch (1) to delete the "ConditionType1"
Result (issue): no conditions are present, even though we never send a patch to delete "ConditionType2".

So, I think we should solve it. 
The question remains if this is a graduation criteria for Beta or GA @lavalamp @liggitt? I keep it for Beta for now.

Reviewer 9: Thanks for investigating. I think you should fix this for beta. SSA is probably the easiest way, but I won't be picky about how you fix it.

- Address reviews and bug reports from Alpha users
- E2e tests are in Testgrid and linked in KEP
- implementation of adding a dedicated pod condition by Kubelet when
  terminating a Pod (see: [Termination initiated by Kubelet](#termination-initiated-by-kubelet))

> - Simplify the code in job controller responsible for detection of failed pods

Reviewer: I think we can move this one to GA.

Author: I rephrased the point to make it clear what is behind (adding the DisruptionTarget or ResourceExhausted conditions 
depending on the scenario). The point was written first when we assumed there will be only one condition added by
kubelet so it could be misleading in its previous form.

As for moving it to GA, I think it would be good that users can experiment with the kubelet part of the feature
(especially graceful node shutdown and resource limits) in Beta.

Reviewer: I meant "simplify the code in job controller" :)

kubelet should be in beta.

Author: Moved to GA.
I'm also wondering about moving "E2e tests are in Testgrid and linked in KEP" to GA, cause it requires "The feature flag enabled by default" to me merged-in first. If we wait with enabling the flag till other things are done it may be a tight schedule.

Reviewer: You can update the KEP after the enhancements freeze to add the links. I would leave it as a beta requirement.

      - kube-apiserver
      - kube-controller-manager
      - kube-scheduler
      - kubelet

>   - Feature gate name: KubeletPodResourcesLimitExceededConditions

Author: Sounds good to me, shorter :) Yes, if possible, otherwise we would need to have two iterations of Beta, right?

      - kube-apiserver
      - kube-controller-manager
      - kube-scheduler
      - kubelet

>   - Feature gate name: KubeletPodFailureConditions

Reviewer 6: Why adding a different flag to kubelet, which would be disconnected from `PodDisruptionConditions` such that we could get only half of the future working?

Author: The motivation was that not all conditions added by Kubelet would be disruptions (but also`ResourceExhausted`). 

If you think this is not a problem, then I prefer to simplify it and stay only with `PodDisruptionConditions`. 

Alternatively, could we maybe rename the `PodDisruptionConditions` gate to `PodFailureConditions`?

@soltysh @alculquicondor ?

Reviewer: Renaming is not backwards compatible. I think we can just the same feature gate. The good thing is that users can disable the gate in kubelet but not in the control plane :)

Author: Removed the new flag

Reviewer 6: > Renaming is not backwards compatible. I think we can just the same feature gate. The good thing is that users can disable the gate in kubelet but not in the control plane :)
Correct, you still have fine grain control over where it's enabled, but having the same name makes it explicit and easier to understand. Thx!

###### How can a rollout or rollback fail? Can it impact already running workloads?

If a rollback or rollout fails for Kubelet on some of the nodes, then the part of
the feature responsible for adding pod conditions for pod failures initiated by
Kubelet will not work for some of the nodes. As a reason, the job controller will
apply the default handling of pod failures (unless another rule based on `onExitCodes`
overrides the behaviour) initiated by Kubelet running on the nodes where the
feature is not working.

Similarly, if the rollout of the feature fails for kubernetes control plane

> components, then the part of the feature responible for adding pod conditions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
components, then the part of the feature responsible for adding pod conditions
```

the feature responsible for adding pod conditions for pod failures initiated by
Kubelet will not work for some of the nodes. As a reason, the job controller will
apply the default handling of pod failures (unless another rule based on `onExitCodes`
overrides the behaviour) initiated by Kubelet running on the nodes where the
feature is not working.

Similarly, if the rollout of the feature fails for kubernetes control plane
components, then the part of the feature responible for adding pod conditions
for pod failures initiated by the components will not work. As a reason, the
job controller will not be able to match the pod failures using the rules to
match the pod conditions.

If the rollback of the feature fails for the control plane components, then
the pod conditions may remain being added when terminating a pod. They will
however be transparent to the Job controller.

If the rollout of the Job controller (kube-controller-manager) fails, then the
added pod conditions will remain transparent to the handling of pod failures.

If the rollback of the Job controller fails, then it will continue to apply the
configured pod failure policy.

> 

Author: Indeed, I have essentially used that description.

###### What specific metrics should inform a rollback?

A substantial increase in the `job_sync_duration_seconds` metric may suggest the
processing of the configured job pod failure policy rules consumes too much time.

> An operator can also observe `job_pod_failure_total` to check if the reason count

Reviewer 10: Looks like there is already job pod total metric that can be used to get a failure ratio? Can we make note of it here so anyone reading this can trivially know how to get the failure ratio?

Author: The currently existing metric called `job_pods_finished_total` does not provide the statistics on the job controller's applied action according to the pod failure policy. However, it seems reasonable to extend the existing metric for this purpose rather than to introduce a new one. I updated the KEP to suggest extension of the currently existing metric by the `failure_policy_action` label.

of taken actions (`FailJob`, `Count` or `Ignore`) correlates with the expected
changes based on the Job workload specificity.

> Additionally, an operator should check if the terminated pods (due to reasons

Author: Yes, or for example a watch `kubectl get pods -o yaml -w --output-watch-events`. Added a sentence on that to clarify.

###### How does this feature react if the API server and/or etcd is unavailable?

No change from existing behavior of the Job controller.

###### What are other known failure modes?

>   - When `PodDIsruptionConditions` enabled pods are not terminated based on the NoExecute taint

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  - When `PodDisruptionConditions` enabled pods are not terminated based on the NoExecute taint
```

>     - Versions affected: 1.25.0 - 1.25.2

Reviewer 6: Given the discussion in the cherry-pick, I'd just call out that it's a known alpha bug in 1.25.x

Author: Updated

    - Detection: Observe that the pods are not deleted when a node is tainted with `NoExecute`

>     - Mitigations: disable `PodDIsruptionConditions`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Mitigations: disable `PodDisruptionConditions`
```

- 2022-08-02: PR "Append new pod conditions when deleting pods to indicate the reason for pod deletion" merged
- 2022-08-02: PR "Add worker to clean up stale DisruptionTarget condition" merged
- 2022-08-04: PR "Support handling of pod failures with respect to the configured rules" merged

> - 2022-09-09: Bugfix PR for test "Fix the TestRoundTripTypes by adding default to the fuzzer" merged

Reviewer: Also provide a summary of the sections of the KEP that changed for beta

Author: Done

Reviewer: We aren't usually that verbose, but thanks :)

###### What steps should be taken if SLOs are not being met to determine the problem?

> If pods terminate without the expected pod failure conditions:

Reviewer 11: These look like useful troubleshooting in general. The SLO you define is specifically around the job sync duration. Will these help debug that? It's not clear to me.

Author: I think using the SLO metrics can be useful. Added two points based on them.
